Base64 Encoding: 

Base64 is a binary to a text encoding scheme that represents binary data in an ASCII string format. It is designed to carry data stored in binary format across the network channels.

The steps followed by the base64 algorithm are as follow:

1. count the number of characters in a String.
2. If it is not multiple of 3 pad with special character i.e., = to make it multiple of 3. we’ll see this in example briefly.
3. Encode the string in ASCII format.
4. Now, it will convert the ASCII to binary format 8-bit each.
5. After converting to binary format, it will divide binary data into chunks of 6-bits each.
6. The chunks of 6-bit binary data will now be converted to decimal number format.
7. Using the base64 Index Table, the decimals will be again converted to a string according to the table format.
8. Finally, we will get the encoded version of our input string.


HMAC:

HMAC algorithm stands for Hashed or Hash-based Message Authentication Code. It is a result of work done on developing a MAC derived from cryptographic hash functions. HMAC is a great resistance towards cryptanalysis attacks as it uses the Hashing concept twice. HMAC consists of twin benefits of Hashing and MAC and thus is more secure than any other authentication code. RFC 2104 has issued HMAC, and HMAC has been made compulsory to implement in IP security. The FIPS 198 NIST standard has also issued HMAC. 

Signing:
Generating a signature using HMAC Algorithm and secret key

Encyption:
In cryptography, encryption is the process of encoding information. This process converts the original representation of the information, known as plaintext, into an alternative form known as ciphertext. Ideally, only authorized parties can decipher a ciphertext back to plaintext and access the original information. 
It is 2 way we can give key to ciphertext and get back plaintext. In signing we can do such because signing algo contains hashing which is only one way.

jwt:

In its compact form, JSON Web Tokens consist of three parts separated by dots (.), which are:

Header
Payload
Signature
Therefore, a JWT typically looks like the following.

xxxxx.yyyyy.zzzzz

Let's break down the different parts.

Header:
The header typically consists of two parts: the type of the token, which is JWT, and the signing algorithm being used, such as HMAC SHA256 or RSA.
For example:

{
  "alg": "HS256",
  "typ": "JWT"
}
Then, this JSON is Base64Url encoded to form the first part of the JWT.

Payload:
The second part of the token is the payload, which contains the claims. Claims are statements about an entity (typically, the user) and additional data. There are three types of claims: registered, public, and private claims.

Registered claims: These are a set of predefined claims which are not mandatory but recommended, to provide a set of useful, interoperable claims. Some of them are: iss (issuer), exp (expiration time), sub (subject), aud (audience), and others.

Notice that the claim names are only three characters long as JWT is meant to be compact.

Public claims: These can be defined at will by those using JWTs. But to avoid collisions they should be defined in the IANA JSON Web Token Registry or be defined as a URI that contains a collision resistant namespace.

Private claims: These are the custom claims created to share information between parties that agree on using them and are neither registered or public claims.

An example payload could be:

{
  "sub": "1234567890",
  "name": "John Doe",
  "admin": true
}
The payload is then Base64Url encoded to form the second part of the JSON Web Token.

Do note that for signed tokens this information, though protected against tampering, is readable by anyone. Do not put secret information in the payload or header elements of a JWT unless it is encrypted.

Signature
To create the signature part you have to take the encoded header, the encoded payload, a secret, the algorithm specified in the header, and sign that.

For example if you want to use the HMAC SHA256 algorithm, the signature will be created in the following way:

HMACSHA256(
  base64UrlEncode(header) + "." +
  base64UrlEncode(payload),
  secret)
The signature is used to verify the message wasn't changed along the way, and, in the case of tokens signed with a private key, it can also verify that the sender of the JWT is who it says it is.

Putting all together
The output is three Base64-URL strings separated by dots that can be easily passed in HTML and HTTP environments, while being more compact when compared to XML-based standards such as SAML.

The following shows a JWT that has the previous header and payload encoded, and it is signed with a secret. 

In authentication, when the user successfully logs in using their credentials, a JSON Web Token will be returned. Since tokens are credentials, great care must be taken to prevent security issues. In general, you should not keep tokens longer than required.

You also should not store sensitive session data in browser storage due to lack of security.

Whenever the user wants to access a protected route or resource, the user agent should send the JWT, typically in the Authorization header using the Bearer schema. The content of the header should look like the following:

Authorization: Bearer <token>
This can be, in certain cases, a stateless authorization mechanism. The server's protected routes will check for a valid JWT in the Authorization header, and if it's present, the user will be allowed to access protected resources. If the JWT contains the necessary data, the need to query the database for certain operations may be reduced, though this may not always be the case.

Note that if you send JWT tokens through HTTP headers, you should try to prevent them from getting too big. Some servers don't accept more than 8 KB in headers. If you are trying to embed too much information in a JWT token, like by including all the user's permissions, you may need an alternative solution, like Auth0 Fine-Grained Authorization.

If the token is sent in the Authorization header, Cross-Origin Resource Sharing (CORS) won't be an issue as it doesn't use cookies.

https://jwt.io/introduction#:~:text=JWTs%20can%20be%20signed%20using,will%20focus%20on%20signed%20tokens.

urlEncoding:
URL encoding converts characters into a format that can be transmitted over the Internet.

formurlencoded:
This is a body type (like query parameters. We need to use middleware in backend)
